[BBLOCK_AUDIO] So first off,
we can see that the command exists and
we can see the help documentation.
If we look at these, there are a couple
important things that you'll you'll need
to worry about as you're
just getting started.
One of them is bootstrap.
Link you also want to know about.
So bootstrap includes linking.
But bootstrap does more things.
It's like a superset of yarn link.
learner add so
that you can think of as yarn add.
It's very similar And
then the others that are very important,
learn to run and learn to exec.
So let me go through those in order in
order from lowest level to highest level.
Learner link, so
as soon as we have interdependencies
between our packages We're
going to wanna have some of
our packages discoverable in the node
modules folder of another package,
right so that,
slack slash UI needs slack slash utils.
It needs to find it in the node modules
folder the way it would find any
other package.
So link creates the symlinks
that make that work.
bootstrap does the same thing as yarn
link, but it also runs yarn install and
it downloads anything that might
need to be downloaded.Learn a run.
It's like a for loop.
With a yarn script, so
if you would, if you were to say,
learn a run build, it would go to
each package and it would build them.
And it's smarter than just the way
I stated it now because it
will analyse who depends on who.
And it will first build
the lowest level packages.
And then only after that's built, it'll
build things that depend on those little
level packages so
builds from the bottom up,
which is exactly what you want in order
to make sure things stay in sync.
learner exec is kind of like learn to run.
It operates in the same order.
However, you can run an arbitrary
command So you could just run LS or
you could make a directory, right?
You're not running like yarn test, you're
just running some sort of shell command.
So those are the four I want you to
pay attention to now, run, exec,
link and bootstrap.
And if you wanted to learn a 5th,
add, like yarn, add.
Okay, it's a question about link.
So yarn.
We'll look at our node modules.
Right now yarn already created at Schlag.
And then it already has types and utils.
Right?
Like,
do we really need link yarn is
already creating the link for us.
Parents, right, good question.
So, in class, we just got a question
that says Look we have we
have already got in our top
level node modules folder.
We already have slack.
And we already have types in utils here.
So why exactly do we need link?
Again, it comes down to versioning.
Right?
Like, it's possible that one package in
your mono repo might use an old version of
something that exists in your mono repo.
It sounds weird, but it can happen.
Let me show you what learner link does.
That is different from what we're
seeing as the yarn workspaces
functionality in front of us.
I'm going to introduce
a pointless dependency, right?
I'm going to entangle these two packages,
even though I don't strictly need to.
So here's how I would do that.
I would say as a dependency,
let's say that the utils need the types.
And I'm gonna point to 001.
Now you can see that even within
the local node modules Have you tails,
I can now find types.
It's a subtle difference, but this
would not have happened with just yarn.
This is something that lerna is doing for
us.
All right, I'm gonna kind of take
advantage of some of the benefits here.
So let's say.
Go to the root of my workspace.
I could do, they're gonna run clean and
it's going to
visit each of my packages and
it ran clean in two packages.
They're gonna run build And
it's going to build my packages and
it is not an accident that it
is first going into types and
then going into utils because I introduced
that pointless dependency there.
utils doesn't really need types but
my package JSON says otherwise package
JSON for you tell says, in order to work,
I must have types So we got to build
that first can't build utils before
you have everything that it needs,
so it figures out this order.
Now if I were to remove this
let's see if that sibling
disappears as it should.
Hmm, not quite.
Maybe I need to run.
Later to bootstrap.
Let's see if this does it.There it goes.
Now that symlink goes away because now we
have two equally low level dependencies.
Let's see if lerna run build will
choose a different order now.
It chose utils first.
Actually, it didn't really do utils first.
I suspect it ran them both side by side.
Just judging by the amount
of time this is taking.
Just let's do some quick math here.
point eight seconds plus point eight
seconds is point eight seconds.
Nope, these must have
been running in parallel.
So learner understands that these
things can be built in parallel.
And so they will be,
because no one depends on anything else.
This is something that as your
project gets more complicated,
it would be very difficult
to keep track of and
it would be hard to keep any build scripts
where this was explicitly defined.
It would be hard to keep them up to date.
I think a lot of teams would end up just
building everything sequentially and
You know, that takes a lot longer.
We have a lot of CPU cores these days on,
you know, on new newer computers,
this, you know, fans out and takes more
advantage of that horizontal scaling.
We could also run yarn test
And this should be more obvious
because we see some results come out.
It's not obvious.
Now, these were definitely
still run in parallel,
right because the total amount of time
it took was the longest leg right
this 2.7 happened within the 3.2
We didn't see any output.
There's an argument you can
add here called stream,
which is just like any console log or
any standard out, and standard error.
That may happen while
we're running yarn test.
I wanna see that, and now you can see
the interleaving of the outpu,t right?
At least up at the top.
Or we're saying just just it's running
these two packages very obviously,
they're running in parallel.
Whereas if I were to say concurrency one.
Here's types doing its thing followed
by you tells you a whole lot of little
knobs you can turn here, especially if you
have a bunch of different packages right?
The ability to run all your tests
in parallel where possible.
It's a big deal.
So that's learner